OLD-TIME BEEF STEW
(Better Homes & Gardens New Cookbook-1976)

2 lbs. beef stew meat, cut in 1 1/2-inch cubes
2 tablespoons shortening or olive oil
2 cups of water
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1 clove garlic
1 medium onion, sliced (I USE TWO)
1 or 2 bay leaves
1 tablespoon salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/4 teaspoon pepper
Dash of ground allspice or cloves
6 carrots, pared and quartered
4 potatoes, pared and quartered
1 pound small white onions (I OMIT THESE)
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Mix together the salt, sugar, paprika, pepper and
allspice and set aside.

Turn on the burner and start heating your pressure 
cooker. When you add a drop of water and it sizzles,
your cooker is ready. Add shortening or oil. When it 
has heated, add the stew meat and cook until well 
browned on all sides. You may need to do this in 
batches to avoid overcrowding the chunks of meat.

ADD the Worcestershire sauce mixed with 2 cups of water. 
(Possible substitutions for the 2 cups of water might 
be: 1 cup of water and 1 cup of red wine; 1 cup of 
water and one cup of beef or chicken broth; or 2 cups 
of broth). Bring the liquid to a boil over high heat, 
lock the lid into place, and cook at full pressure 
(15psi) until the meat is tender, approximately 20 to 
40 minutes. (Some meats will cook quicker, some longer,
and small chunks of meat cook tender quicker than large
chunks.)

Quick release the pressure, and safely open the cooker,
making sure the lid opens with the steam facing away 
from you. Place the potatoes in an even layer on top 
of the meat and then put the carrots on top of the 
potatoes. Bring back up to full pressure and cook for 
4 minutes.

Quick release the pressure, and add the onions, garlic,
bay leaves, and spice mixture. Bring back up to full 
pressure and cook for 3-4 minutes (shorter time for small
chunks of potatoes and carrots; longer time for larger
chunks of potatoes and carrots). 

Quick release the pressure again. Remove the bay leaves.

Slowly blend 1/3 cup cold water into the 3 tablespoons 
of flour. (Or use arrowroot as mentioned above) Stir 
slowly into the hot stew mixture. Cook and stir until 
bubbly and thick. Serve in bowls.

Makes 6 - 8 servings
