To clarify cooking this recipe with a regular pressure cooker. To cook the chicken you would set pressure on high or 15 psi and cook for 30 min with a quick release. To cook the soup you would set the pressure on low or 8 psi and cook for 3 min with a quick release. I should have so stated when I posted the recipe the first time. 

Stewed Chicken Lickin' 

Ingredients 

7-8 lb. whole chicken 
2 tbsp. olive oil Three 14 oz. cans chicken stock 
1 large onion, coarsely chopped 
4 large carrots, peeled & cut into 
5 or 6 large pieces 
1 1/2 lbs. small potatoes, quartered 
2 cups frozen corn kernels 
1 stalk celery, chopped 
3 cloves of garlic, sliced 
1 bay leaf 
1/2 tsp. Italian seasoning salt & freshly ground pepper to taste 


Stewed Chicken Lickin' 

1. Season the chicken with salt and black pepper. 

2. Place the oil in the inner pot and set the cooker to BROWN mode. Place the 
chicken in the oil and cook until the chicken is lightly browned on all sides. 
Remove the chicken and reserve. 

3. Add remaining ingredients, carrots and potatoes last. Place the chicken back 
in the pot and place the lid on the cooker. Lock lid and close the rapid release
button. 

4. Press CANCEL button to turn off BROWN mode. Set the machine to STEW mode 
(default time 30 minutes and default pressure 80). 

5. After 30 minutes, the timer will reach 0 and the cooker will automatically 
switch to the warm mode or the red light will go to green. Place the pressure 
valve from closed position to rapid release. When the steam is completely 
released, remove the lid. Serve. 

QUICK MEAL IDEA: Chicken Lickin' Vegetable Soup 

1 bag of frozen mixed vegetables left over stock & chicken from Stewed Chicken 
Lickin' recipe 

Quick Meal Idea: Chicken Lickin' Vegetable Soup 

1. Add frozen mixed vegetables to the left over stock and chicken from this 
recipe. Lock lid and close the rapid release button. Set the PRESSURE ADJUST 
mode to 40. Set the timer to 3 minutes. 

2. After 3 minutes, the timer will reach 0 and the cooker will automatically 
switch to the warm mode or the red light will go to green. Place the pressure 
valve from closed position to rapid release. When the steam is completely 
released, remove the lid. Serve. 
