Dear Pressure Cooker Recipe Seekers,
In my travels on the 'Internet Highway' I have come upon the following two
potato salad recipes for the pressure cooker. I have added my own
adjustments. I hope you will find them to your liking and give your family
many fond 'Food Memories' for years to come. Merry Cooking!
Yours Truly,
Granny Conklin

MRS. GLANDER'S POTATO SALAD (15 MINUTES)

Makes 6-8 servings

Ingredients:
1/3 cup chicken broth
1/3 cup garlic wine vinegar
7 medium-sized potatoes, peeled and cut into ½" cubes
2 cloves garlic, peeled and crushed
½ t salt
¼ t white pepper

Directions:
In a 5-quart or larger pressure cooker, add chicken broth, wine vinegar and
trivet.
Place potatoes on top of trivet.
Add garlic, salt and white pepper. Stir well.
Close lid and bring pressure to first red ring over high heat.
Adjust heat to stabilize pressure at first red ring.
Cook for 4 to 5 minutes.
Remove from heat and use Natural Release Method.
Drain potatoes into a colander and let stand for a minute to dry excess
moisture.

1 cup mayonnaise
2 T mustard
5 hard boiled eggs diced
1 medium red onion, peeled and finely diced

In a separate bowl mix mayonnaise and mustard.
Stir in eggs and red onion.
Spread dressing over cooked potatoes.
Stir carefully but thoroughly until evenly mixed.
Serve warm or chilled.

Notes:
Potato salad can also be topped with bell pepper, radish and parsley.
Sour cream can be substituted for the mayonnaise.

CLASSIC FRENCH-STYLE POTATO SALAD (30 MINUTES)
The French would sooner give up smoking than put mayonnaise on their potato
salad! Classic French potato salad is made with new, red potatoes; green
beans and bacon, all tossed with warm, homemade vinaigrette. The secret is
dressing the potatoes while they are still warm, giving them a shot of
intense flavor. Try using Yukon gold potatoes if they are available in your
market. It is best to have the potatoes at room temperature.

Serves 4 as a side dish


Ingredients:
1 ½ cup dry white wine
2 pounds small or medium sized red or Yukon gold potatoes,
scrubbed and cut into 1 ½ inch quarters or 8ths

½ pound Tender green beans (Kentucky Wonder or Blue Lake beans), blanched 5
minutes and refreshed in ice water

6 thick slices smoked bacon, cooked crisp, broken into pieces

1 T Dijon mustard
2 T Champagne or White wine vinegar


½ cup extra virgin Olive oil
½ cup chopped parsley

Salt and pepper to taste
3 green onions cut into ½" pieces

Directions:
Place the wine in the bottom of a 4-liter or larger pressure cooker.
Place trivet in the cooker and add the washed potatoes.
Bring the wine to the boil and place cover on pressure cooker.
Bring pressure to the second red ring over high heat.
Lower heat to maintain pressure at the second red ring.
Cook 4 to 6 minutes depending on size and age of the potatoes.

While the potatoes cook, prepare the beans and bacon.

Heat a pot of boiling water and blanche the beans for 5 minutes.
Take the beans out of the water and immediately plunge into a bowl of ice
water to stop the cooking. Drain and pat dry.

To prepare the bacon, place it in a frying pan and fry until crisp.
Drain the bacon and crumble into small pieces.
When the potatoes are ready, use Natural Release Method to release the
pressure:
(Set the cooker aside and allow the pressure to subside).
Remove the potatoes and gently toss them in the hot wine.
Drain and allow them to cool slightly.

Prepare the vinaigrette by stirring the vinegar into the mustard.
When that is mixed, slowly whisk in the oil in a stream.
The mixture should be a nice, thick emulsion.
Season to taste with salt and pepper.

Toss the potatoes with the vinaigrette using a wooden spoon (so that you
don't damage the soft potatoes), and add the beans, and bacon.
Top with parsley, chopped chives, roasted red peppers, etc. for garnish.

Granny Conklin
