Guidelines for Easy Pressure Cooking

As with any appliance or gadget, you have some basic, fundamental rules to
follow to get the best results before and while you use your pressure cooker.
As you pressure cook, always remember the following points:

Because food, especially liquid, boils harder and faster under pressure, it
has a tendency to increase in volume. For this reason, never fill the
pressure cooker more than half full with food or two-thirds full with liquid
when making soups or sauces.

Maximize flavor by browning meat and poultry directly in the pressure cooker.
When browning, you want the temperature to be hot enough to sear in the
juices and flavor, but not burn the food. Always brown with the cover off and
usually over high or medium-high heat in order to sear the outer surface of
the meat. Marinated foods should be well drained, and all meat and poultry
should be patted dry before placing in the hot oil.

Never force the cover when closing it. If the cover won't easily close and
lock, remove it from the pressure cooker and make sure that the rubber gasket
is properly positioned. The cover should sit squarely on the center of the
pressure cooker before you try to close it.

The countdown time for cooking begins when the pressure cooker reaches the
level of pressure chosen and not before. Pressure is rated in psi, or pounds
per square inch. The higher the pressure, the hotter the food is cooking.

Because pressure cookers cook up to three times faster than conventional
cooking methods, food can overcook! If you're uncertain about the exact time
to cook something, undercook it. Undercooked food can easily be cooked under
pressure an additional minute or two, whereas overcooked food usually becomes
puree!

Check out the only guide you'll need for stress-free cooking under pressure: <A
HREF="http://portal.hungryminds.com/partner.asp?partner=yahoo&link=http://catalo\
g.dummies.com/product.asp?isbn=0764554131">
Pressure Cookers For Dummies</A>, by Tom Lacalamita.