Boneless Turkey Breast Roast with Mushroom Gravy, Sass (Pressure Cooker)


2 pounds -- 20 minutes high pressure + natural pressure
release (Serves 4 to 6) (2 to 2 1/2 lbs)
* Frozen roasts: Add 5 minutes high pressure per inch
of thickness.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
-----------------------------------------------------------------
2 - 2 1/2 lb boneless turkey breast
1 tablespoon soy sauce -- (1 to 2) (preferably Japanese tamari or shoyu)
2 tablespoons butter -- or oil
10 ounces button cremini, or portobello mushrooms -- trimmed and sliced
Salt
1 cup chopped onions
1 cup chopped carrots
1 cup chopped celery
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1/2 cup dry red wine or dry vermouth
1 1/2 cups beef or chicken broth or water -- some cookers need more
liquid (see Pressure Points below)
2 large bay leaves
Freshly ground pepper
2 tablespoons cornstarch -- (2 to 3) (optional thickener; use 1
tablespoon per cup of gravy)

Drizzle 1 tablespoon of the soy sauce onto a plate and roll the roast in it, 
adding the remaining soy sauce, if needed, to coat the roast thoroughly.

In a 4-quart or larger cooker, heat 1 tablespoon of the butter. Add half of the
mushrooms and sprinkle lightly with salt. Cook over high heat, stirring
frequently, until the mushrooms are browned, about 3 minutes. Set the browned
mushrooms aside.

Heat the remaining tablespoon butter and stir in the onions, carrots, and
celery. Blend in the tomato paste and wine. Boil until half the liquid has
evaporated, about 1 minute. Stir in the broth, uncooked mushrooms, and bay
leaves. Place the roast in the broth, along with any unabsorbed soy sauce. 
Season with pepper on top.

Lock the lid in place. Over high heat bring to high pressure. Reduce the heat
just enough to maintain high pressure and cook for time indicated above. 
Turn off the heat. Allow the pressure to come down naturally. Remove the lid,
tilting it away from you to allow steam to escape.

Check the roast for doneness: Use an instant-read thermometer to check the
internal temperature of the roast. It should read 160 degrees. If the roast 
requires more cooking, return to high pressure for 5 to 10 more minutes and 
again let the pressure come down naturally. Transfer the roast to a carving 
board and let it rest for at least 10 minutes before slicing.

Prepare the gravy: Discard the hay leaves. Strain the broth and degrease it in
a fat separator. Purée the broth with the solids and re-turn to the cooker. To
intensify the flavor, boil the gravy vigorously to reduce. Add the browned
mushrooms and salt and pepper to taste.

If you wish to thicken the gravy: in a small bowl, blend the cornstarch into an
equal amount of water. Bring the gravy to a boil, then lower the heat and stir
in the cornstarch mixture. Cook at a gentle boil, stirring frequently, until
the gravy reaches desired consistency.

Slice the roast against the grain. Return the slices to the cooker to reheat
and absorb some of the gravy. To serve, arrange the meat on a platter, pour
some gravy on top, and pass the remainder in a sauceboat.

VARIATIONS
• COOK-ALONG POTATOES (6-quart or larger cooker): Add as many scrubbed
(unpeeled) potatoes as will fit around roast without exceeding maximum fill
line. (Cook potatoes whole with roasts that cook 35 minutes or longer. Halve
potatoes for shorter cooking recipes or to fit around roast.) Serve potatoes
alongside roast or make them into Creamy Mashed Potatoes, page 287.

PRESSURE POINTS
• If using a 4-quart cooker, choose a roast that weighs 3 1/2 pounds or less to
fit below manufacturer’s recommended fill line.
• If using an electric stovetop, set roast on a rack to prevent scorching.
• Since some cookers lose significant liquid during cooking, it’s necessary to
add enough liquid at the beginning to prevent scorching and to ensure that you
will have sufficient gravy. For roasts that cook longer than 20 minutes, add as
much extra liquid as will be lost during required cooking time; see page 9 for
details. If your cooker does not lose any liquid, you can reduce broth to 1 cup
for a more concentrated gravy.


Source: Sass, Lorna. "Pressure Perfect" © 2004 William Morrow, ISBN
0-06-050534-6 (page 96)